http://web.mit.edu/fsl_v5.0.8/fsl/doc/wiki/FEAT(2f)UserGuide.html#Before_Running_FEAT

>> Appendix A: Brief Overview of GLM Analysis

sets up a model
 (i.e., what you expect to see in the data)

If the model is derived from the stimulation that was applied to the subject in the MRI scanner, then a good fit between the model and the data means that the data was indeed caused by the stimulation.

The GLM used here is univariate.

This means that the model is fit to each voxel's time-course separately.

Independent Component Analysis - ICA - is an example of multivariate analysis.)

Thus the data comprises a single 1D vector of intensity values.

A very simple example of linear modelling is y(t)=a*x(t)+b+e(t). y(t) is the data, and is a 1D vector of intensity values - one for each time point, i.e., is a function of time. x(t) is the model, and is also a 1D vector with one value for each time point.

In the case of a square-wave block design, x(t) might be a series of 1s and 0s - for example, 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 etc. a is the parameter estimate for x(t), i.e., the value that the square wave (of height 1) must be multiplied by to fit the square wave component in the data. b is a constant, and in this example, would correspond to the baseline (rest) intensity value in the data. e is the error in the model fitting.

If there are two types of stimulus, the model would be y=a1*x1+a2*x2+b+e. Thus there are now two different model waveforms, corresponding to the two stimulus timecourses. There are also two interesting parameters to estimate, a1 and a2. Thus if a particular voxel reponds strongly to model x1 the model-fitting will find a large value for a1; if the data instead looks more like the second model timecourse, x2, then the model-fitting will give a2 a large value.

GLM is normally formulated in matrix notation. Thus all of the parameters are grouped together into a vector A, and all of the model timecourses are grouped together into a matrix X. 

Thus the left column is x1, for example, the timecourse associated with visual stimulation, and the right column is x2, e.g., auditory stimulation, which has a different timecourse to the visual stimulation.

To convert estimates of parameter estimates (PEs) into statistical maps, it is necessary to divide the actual PE value by the error in the estimate of this PE value. 

To convert a t value into a P (probability) or Z statistic requires standard statistical transformations; however, t, P and Z all contain the same information - they tell you how significantly the data is related to a particular EV (part of the model). Z is a "Gaussianised t", which means that a Z statistic of 2 is 2 standard deviations away from zero.

If you want to model nonlinear interactions between two EVs (for example, when you expect the response to two different stimuli when applied simultaneously to give a greater response than predicted by adding up the responses to the stimuli when applied separately), then an extra EV is necessary. 



